Mac developer setup using a VM (#25)
votingworks/mail-ballot-manager: README.md

On Linux for now.

1. Get your dev environment ready:

   cp server/config/database.cfg.dev server/config/database.cfg
   make dev-environment

2. Run the Python backend and React front-end with auto-reload:

   ./run-dev.sh

Whenever you want to reset the database:

    make resetdb

## Developer Setup on Mac with a Linux VM

1.  Install Parallels.

        brew cask install parallels

2.  Download Ubuntu Desktop `.iso` image file: [ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso](https://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04.4/ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso)
3.  Create Parallels VM using the Ubuntu iso image file.
4.  Copy ssh public key `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to VM `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.

> 5.  Install NVM (curl is an install dependency)

Reviewer: This should clearly indicate that this is to be run on the VM.

    ```
    sudo apt install curl
    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.3/install.sh | bash
    ```
    Close terminal and reopen.
    ```
    nvm install 12
    ```

> 6.  Install `git`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.  Install `git`.
```

7.  `git clone` this project on the VM.

> 8.  Follow steps above for "Running in Development"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8.  Follow steps above for "Running in Development".
```

9.  Setup Github access to allow pushing to repos.

### Optional Steps

1. Install gpg to sign commits.

> 2. Setup VS Code to use "Remote - SSH" extension to be able to edit files and access the terminal from within VS Code… and forward ports such that you can use a native browser as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Setup VS Code to use ["Remote - SSH"](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) extension to be able to edit files and access the terminal from within VS Code… and forward ports such that you can use a native browser as well.
```

3. Setup dotfiles to your preference.

### Setup SSH Host Shortcut

Set up ssh host shortcut such that you can type `ssh vx` to connect to VM:

> 1.  Open Settings in the VM (click the caret in the top right to reveal menu to click button to open "Settings")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Open Settings in the VM (click the caret in the top right to reveal menu to click button to open "Settings").
```

2.  Open Network in sidebar.
3.  Click the gear next to the "Connected" in the "Wired" section.

> 4.  Copy the IP address. Eg. `10.211.55.3`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Copy the IP address. Eg. `10.211.55.3`.
```

> 5.  Back on dev machine, create/open the file `~/.ssh/config` and add:

Reviewer: I think it's worth using the standard terminology here and using "host" and "guest" (or "VM").

        Host vx
          HostName 10.211.55.3

6.  Confirm this works by typing `ssh vx` to ssh into the VM.

### Troubleshooting

#### Error message: `Error: ENOSPC: System limit for number of file watchers reached`

[Increase the amount of watchers](https://github.com/guard/listen/wiki/Increasing-the-amount-of-inotify-watchers#the-technical-details):

    echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
    sudo sysctl -p

> ### Cant find `pipenv`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Can't find `pipenv`?
```

> You may need to update your `PATH` to include `/.local/bin/`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to update your `PATH` to include `~/.local/bin/`:
```

    export PATH="${HOME}/.local/bin:${PATH}"

> ### Issues Installing Yarn via make?

Reviewer: Rather than adding this, can we fix the `Makefile`?

Author: Yes, but I'm gonna punt this to @benadida to do when the time comes.

> On Linux for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requires Linux or Docker.
```

1. Get your dev environment ready:

   cp server/config/database.cfg.dev server/config/database.cfg
   make dev-environment

2. Run the Python backend and React front-end with auto-reload:

   ./run-dev.sh

Whenever you want to reset the database:

    make resetdb

## Developer Setup on Mac with a Linux VM

On the host machine, setup a VM using Parallels:

1.  Download Ubuntu Desktop `.iso` image file: [ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso](https://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04.4/ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso)
2.  Install Parallels.
    ```
    brew cask install parallels
    ```
3.  Create Parallels VM using the Ubuntu iso image file.

On the VM:

1.  Install NVM (curl is an install dependency):
    ```
    sudo apt install curl
    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.3/install.sh | bash
    ```
    Close terminal and reopen.
    ```
    nvm install 12
    ```
2.  Install `git`.
3.  `git clone` this project on the VM.
4.  Follow steps above for "Running in Development".
5.  Setup Github access to allow pushing to repos.

### Optional Steps

1. Install gpg to sign commits.

> 2. Setup VS Code to use ["Remote - SSH"](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) extension to be able to edit files and access the terminal from within VS Code… and forward ports such that you can use a native browser as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Setup VS Code to use ["Remote - SSH"](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) extension to be able to edit files and access the terminal from within VS Code… and forward ports such that you can use a browser on the host as well.
```

3. Setup dotfiles to your preference.

### Setup SSH Host Shortcut

Set up ssh host shortcut such that you can type `ssh vx` to connect to VM:

1.  Open Settings in the VM (click the caret in the top right to reveal menu to click button to open "Settings").
2.  Open Network in sidebar.
3.  Click the gear next to the "Connected" in the "Wired" section.
4.  Copy the IP address. Eg. `10.211.55.3`.
5.  On the host machine, create/open the file `~/.ssh/config` and add:
    ```
    Host vx
      HostName 10.211.55.3
    ```

> 6.  Confirm this works by typing `ssh vx` to ssh into the VM. If your username is different on the VM than the host, you'll need to use `ssh USER@vx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.  Confirm this works by typing `ssh vx` to ssh into the VM. If your username is different on the VM than the host, add `User USER` to the ssh config for `vx` in  `~/.ssh/config`.
```

7.  Copy ssh public key fron the host machine `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to the VM `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` for connecting without entering a password.
    ```

>     `scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub vx:~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh vx 'cat >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys'`
```

Reviewer: In case it's not clear why you'd want this, the `scp` version overwrites the file whereas the `ssh` one appends to it.

```
./run-dev.sh
```

## Developer Setup on Mac with a Linux VM

1.  Install Parallels.

        brew cask install parallels

2.  Download Ubuntu Desktop `.iso` image file: [ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso](https://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04.4/ubuntu-18.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso)
3.  Create Parallels VM using the Ubuntu iso image file.
4.  Copy ssh public key `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to VM `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.

> 5.  `git checkout` the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  `git checkout` the project on the VM.
```
